# NXdata

- NXdata at each level where data provider gives a sensible view `add to existing`
- .../detector/data as NX_NUMBER and /entry/data as NXdata in compliance with other appdefs `add to existing`
- Explain to tech partner how to use NXdata at all `documentation`
- Can we use NXdata as a general data container?
    - What is missing?

## Decisions
- Create a level on top of NXmpes, e.g., NXphotoemission from which NXmpes and NXpeem inherits.
- Provide a glossary (in NXdata) of optional data axis names/physical quantities which could be used and made required in the inheriting appdefs
- Prepare NXdata for NXmpes but propose it as a general approach to NIAC
- Copy & Paste "new" NXdata's throughout NXmpes (but eventually use extends or general NXdata)
- Have NXdata in NXdetector with notion of xpixel and ypixel as standard view on the data
- Keep NXprocess/NXcalibration as it is now and maybe refine in the future
- Add emission line calibration (already prepared by Lukas)
- Device data goes under NXdetector/NXdata (with pixelx, pixely, ...)
- NXcalibration should have inputs and outputs to refer to which data it was applied to
- Physical meaningful data is collected under NXentry/NXdata (in some specialized cases it is in NXprocess)
- There can be multiple views on the data in the application definition

### Small NXdata example
```yaml=
my_data(NXdata):
    doc: |
        Can use `energy`, `kx`, etc... as definied below
    energy:
        doc: this is the energy
    kx:
        doc: this is the x-axis of the momentum
```

```
my_data/@axes = ['energy', 'kx', 'spin']
```

## Todo (for MPES workshop)
- Refactor NXmpes -> NXmpes extends NXphotoemission
- Provide a glossary (in NXdata) of optional data axis names/physical quantities
- Example how to write an NXdata (inside the appdef)
- Add emission line concepts to connect to emission line
- Create NXdata tutorial
- Add linking to NXcalibration


## Backlog (for future development)
- Use of extends keywords in base classes
- Reference to other experiments in other files/subentries in other files (for calibration reference etc.)
- Separate scanned and static parameters --> NXmeasurement

---

# Raw Data, Data Calibration

- NXinstrument or NXdetector: where to put raw data?
    - shall the static params grouped separately from actual measurement parameters/acquisitions?
- what is calibrated data and what is raw? we should provide well documented placeholders for them, so all possibilities shall be supported `documentation`
- k-space (raw or derived) data vs. angle-scane (as raw data in some cases) (This is rather NXmpes_arpes)
- what kind of raw/derived data we can/should require or expect
- energy axis (in a generic(?) AppDef) vs. PEEM (where no energy axis is present)